A ferry pilot brought a plane to town at night, tied it down at the
rural airport, and was to meet the prospective buyer the next morning.
The buyer arrived at the strip early the next morning, and while
waiting for the ferry pilot, poked around the locked plane. Eventually
something possessed him to rotate the prop through manually. Normally
that would not have been a problem, except the magneto switch in the
aircraft was "open" in the off position, which meant that both
magnetos were hot. This was likely not noticed because not everyone
does a magneto "ground" check in the off position during their run-up
process. However, if the mixture idle-cutoff were in the cutoff
position, there would not be fuel available in the carburetor to
ignite, except for some reason (such as the ferry pilot extracting his
RON bag in the dark) the mixture was nearly full rich. Normally this
might have resulted in the engine firing, or even starting and idling.
Again, this morning, things were not normal. The RON bag, extracted in
darkness by the ferry pilot not only had bumped the mixture control,
but also the throttle, so the aircraft engine faithfully roared to
full power. Fortunately the startled prospective buyer did not get hit
by the spinning prop. However, again, this was an unusual morning. As
the engine roared to life, the tiedown on the right wing broke, and
the plane pivoted on the left tiedown and swung approximately 180
degrees until the prop was buried into the fuel tank of an adjacent
Cessna. Av gas was all over the place. One thing went right that
morning, in that the avgas did not ignite and there was no fireball.
Unfortunately, the day was not over, yet. After missing the spinning
prop and not getting butchered by the surprise of his life, and then
dodging a partially freed airplane, the buyer watched in horror as 40
gallons of avgas was sprayed over a running engine, as it came to a
somewhat abrupt stop, the prop buried in someone else's wing. At that
point he started running up the hill to the FBO to get help, and
collapsed to the ground and died of a heart attack.
    -- mongo, https://aviation.stackexchange.com/a/57301/16923
%
Select, then verify, then call.
Understand the difference between 'selected', 'indicated' and 'true' values.
%
Some airlines have airplanes equipped with auto land features that can
actually do an approach with zero visibility (technically and
procedurally actually more difficult than a pilot conducting the
landing), but what happens after you land in those conditions is that
you are now on a runway and have a very difficult time finding your
way to a gate if visibility is truly zero.
    --Regional airline pilot quoted in James Fallows column, https://www
      .theatlantic.com/notes/2019/03/3-implications-737-max-crashes/585034/
