LISP is an object-oriented lanugage, rather than a value-oriented
lanugage. The LISP programmer does not think of variables as the
objects of interest, bins in which values can be held. Instead each
data item is itself an object, which can be examined and modified, and
which has an identity independent of the variable(s) used to name it.
    --Steele and Sussman, "AIM-514: Design of LISP-Based Processors"
      (1979-03-01) https://dspace.mit.edu/handle/1721.1/5731
%
Pascal is for building pyramids -- imposing, breathtaking, static
structures built by armies pushing heavy blocks into place. Lisp is for
building organisms -- imposing, breathtaking, dynamic structures built
by squads fitting fluctuating myriads of simpler organisms into place.
    --Alan J. Perlis, SICP Introduction
%
The discretionary exportable functionality entrusted to the individual
Lisp programmer is more than an order of magnitude greater than that to
be found within Pascal enterprises. Lisp programs inflate libraries with
functions whose utility transcends the application that produced them.
    --Alan J. Perlis, SICP Introduction
%
Lisp has such a simple syntax and semantics that parsing can be treated
as an elementary task. Thus parsing technology plays almost no role in
Lisp programs, and the construction of language processors is rarely an
impediment to the rate of growth and change of large Lisp systems.
    --Alan J. Perlis, SICP Introduction
%
Greenspun's Tenth Rule of Programming:
Any sufficiently complicated C or Fortran program contains an ad hoc
informally-specified bug-ridden slow implementation of half of Common
Lisp.
    --Philip Greenspun
%
Lisp is an excellent laboratory for language experimentation for two
reasons. First, one can choose a very small subset, with only a dozen
primitives or so, that is still recognizably a member of the class
of Lisp-like languages. It is very easy to bootstrap such a small
language, with variations of choice, on a new platform. If it looks
promising, one can flesh out the long laundry list of amenities later.
Second, it is particularly easy--the work of an hour or less--to
bootstrap such a new dialect within an existing Lisp implementation.
Even if the host implementation differs in fundamental ways from the
new dialect, it can provide primitive operations such as arithmetic
and I/O as well as being a programming language that is just plain
convenient for writing language interpreters. If you can live with
the generic, list-structure-oriented syntax, you can have a field day
reprogramming the semantics. After you get that right there is time
enough to re-engineer it and, if you must, slap a parser on the front.
    --Guy Steele and Richard Gabriel, "The Evolution of Lisp" (1993)
%
What I like about Lisp is that you can feel the bits between your toes.
    --Drew McDermott, 1977
%
Lisp is the world's greatest programming lagnuage--or so its proponents
think.
    --Guy Steele and Richard Gabriel, "The Evolution of Lisp" (1993)
%
Overall, the evolution of Lisp has been guided more by institutional
rivalry, one-upsmanship, and the glee born of technical cleverness
that is characteristic of the "hacker culture" than by sober assessments
of technical requirements.
    --Guy Steele and Richard Gabriel, "The Evolution of Lisp" (1993)
%
My other car is a cdr.
%
One person's data is another person's program.
    --Guy L. Steele, Jr., Tartan Laboratories
%
All numbers are octal integers: to input the number -1 it is necessary
to type 777776.    [Ed. note: _not_ 777777!]
    -- Peter Deutsch's PDP-1 LISP memo.
       https://archive.org/details/bitsavers_mitrlepdp1P_420747
%
The unexpected appearance of an interpreter tended to freeze the form
of the language, and some of the decisions made rather lightheartedly
for the ... paper later proved unfortunate. These included ... the use
of the number zero to denote the empty list NIL and the truth value
false. Besides encouraging pornographic programming, giving a special
interpretation to the address 0 has caused difficulties in all
subsequent implementations.
    --John McCarthy, _History of Lisp_, 1979
      http://jmc.stanford.edu/articles/lisp.html
%
Indeed, any friendly APL or LISP interpreter would be more than happy
to return 1 when 1 is typed to it. However, many people would claim
that 1 is data, and not a program. For the sake of this letter, we
will pay homage to this unfounded prejudice....
    --"Thief-Reproduthing Programth," Letter to BYTE, 1980-12 p.16
      Daniel Weise, NE43-838, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science
