As far as the laws of mathematics refer to reality, they are not
certain; and as far as they are certain, they do not refer to reality.
    --Albert Einstein
%
I do not think that mathematics can be regarded as an a explanation in
itself of anything. Physical theories are not what they are because of
mathematics. Mathematics are the language in which we state our theories
about the physical universe....
  ...I think Russell’s paradox (shockingly not mentioned in this book)
demonstrates that mathematics is a human invention. Russell’s paradox shows
that mathematics is not rooted in logic as both Russell and Frege had
originally set out to demonstrate.... Mathematics is not fundamentally an
objective science - the product our discoveries about reality. Instead, at
its foundations, it is a synthetic enterprise and its findings are based on
our ability to use our imagination and harness our intuition. Mathematics
is not a body of immutable absolute truth as Pythagoras, and later Plato,
tells us and with which the author agrees. Rather, it is a collection of
useful problem-solving techniques constructed upon, and built up from, the
most banal tautologies....
   Mathematics is not a body of metaphysical truths out there to be found.
This is to succumb to a seductive ontological temptation. There is nothing
there to be found that we did not put there ourselves.
    --Arianne, review of _Our Mathematical Universe: My Quest for the
      Ultimate Nature of Reality_ by Max Tegmark
      https://www.amazon.com/gp/customer-reviews/R29SCII80MP5OS
%
To spell out a concrete example, consider a 3-manifold M with positive
Betti number. One would like to show that M admits a map to the 2-sphere
which is "non-trivial", i.e. non-homotopic to the constant map. By a
general nonsense argument, there is a map

    f: M -> K(Z,2)

to the Eilenberg-MacLane space, corresponding to a non-trivial element
in H2(M). Since K(Z,2) is complex projective space and the latter admits
a skeleton structure with no cells in odd dimensions, we can apply the
cellular approximation theorem to conclude that the map f can be pushed
down to the 2-skeleton, which happens to be the 2-sphere.

    --Wikipedia "General Abstract Nonsense" entry
%
It is a profoundly erroneous truism, repeated by all copy-books and by
eminent people when they are making speeches, that we should cultivate the
habit of thinking of what we are doing. The precise opposite is the case.
Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which
we can perform without thinking about them. Operations of thought are like
cavalry charges in a battle--they are strictly limited in number, they
require fresh horses, and must only be made at decisive moments.
    --Alfred North Whitehead, _An Introduction to Mathematics_ (1911)
%
Although everyone has their own interpretation, a good practical
definition is "Nonrepudiation is anything which fails to go away when
you stop believing in it". Put another way, if you can convince a user
that it isn't worth trying to repudiate a signature then you have
nonrepudiation. This can take the form of having them sign a legal
agreement saying they won't try to repudiate any of their signatures,
giving them a smart card and convincing them that it's so secure that
any attempt to repudiate a signature generated with it would be futile,
threatening to kill their kids, or any other method which has the
desired effect.
    --Peter Gutmann, _X.509 Style Guide_
      http://www.cs.auckland.ac.nz/~pgut001/pubs/x509guide.txt
%
Isomorphisms, automorphisms, and endomorphisms are special types
of homomorphisms.
%
Later generations will regard _Mengenlehre_ [set theory] as a disease
from which one has recovered.
    --mis-attributed to Poincaré, see
      http://link.springer.com/article/10.1007%2FBF03024067
%
I never came across one of Laplace's "Thus it plainly appears"
without feeling sure that I had hours of hard work before me to
fill up the chasm and find out how it plainly appears.
    --Nathanial Bodwitch, 1838
%
The mathematician knows some things, no doubt, but not those things
one usually wants to get from him.
    --Albert Einstein
%
A circumstance which has always appeared wonderful to me, is
that such sublime discoveries should have been made by the
sole assistance of a quadrant and a little arithmetic.
    --Voltaire
%
Such is the advantage of a well-constructed language that
its simplified notation often becomes the source of profound
theories.
    --P. S. Laplace
%
It is easier to square a circle than to get round a
mathematician.
    --A. De Morgan, 1840
%
A person's mathematical knowledge is her or his tendency to respond
to certain kinds of perceived problem situations by constructing,
reconstructing and organizing mental processes and objects to use
in dealing with the situations.
    --Ed Dubinsky, "A learning theory approach to calculus" (1989)
%
Mathematics is nature's way of letting you know how sloppy your writing is.
Formal mathematics is nature's way of letting you know how sloppy your
mathematics is.
    --Leslie Lamport, _Specifying Systems_
%
A biologist, a physicist and a mathematician were all drinking coffee and
tea and observing a house across the street from them. They notice that two
people walk into the house and then an hour later, three people walk out.
- Physicist: An experimental error. Our first measurement was incorrect.
- Biologist: No, they've obviously reproduced.
- Mathematician: No, now when a one person enters the house, it'll be empty
  again.
%
There's a mathematician whose non-mathematician friends are constantly
ribbing him because his field is just so abstract and seems to have no
relevance to the real world. One day, it gets to him, and he resolves to
arm himself with some practical applications of research mathematics for
the next encounter. He realizes that his own specialty (mathematical logic)
is probably too far beyond them to be of any use there, so he goes to the
department bulletin board to find an upcoming talk about something
practical. Luckily, a talk is scheduled that afternoon on "the theory of
gears." "Perfect!" he says. Nothing could be more practical, more
down-to-earth. Finally, he'll be able to prove to his friends that
mathematics is relevant to the real world. That afternoon, he's so excited
that he goes to the talk five minutes early and sits in the first row of
seats. Then, at the scheduled time, the speaker stands up and begins:
"While the theory of gears with real numbers of teeth is well
understood...."
%
Let ε < 0...
%
The number you have dialed is imaginary. Please rotate your phone 90
degrees and try again.
%
Q: What is purple and commutative?
A: An abelian grape.
%
Logic sometimes makes monsters. For half a century we have seen a mass of
bizarre functions which appear to be forced to resemble as little as possible
honest functions which serve some purpose. More of continuity, or less of
continuity, more derivatives, and so forth. Indeed, from the point of view of
logic, these strange functions are the most general; on the other hand those
which one meets without searching for them, and which follow simple laws appear
as a particular case which does not amount to more than a small corner.
  In former times when one invented a new function it was for a practical
purpose; today one invents them purposely to show up defects in the reasoning
of our fathers and one will deduce from them only that.
  If logic were the sole guide of the teacher, it would be necessary to begin
with the most general functions, that is to say with the most bizarre. It is
the beginner that would have to be set grappling with this teratologic museum.
    --Henri Poincaré, 1899
%
A fifth part of a swarm of bees came to rest on the
    flower of Kadumba, a third on the flower of Silinda.
Three times the difference between these two numbers
    flew over a flower of Krutaja,
and one bee alone remained in the air, attraced by the
    perfume of a jasmine and a bloom.
Tell me, beautiful girl, how many bees were in the swarm?
    --Bhāskara, _Lilivati_, 12th century
%
1Zp.5Rm.6
    --pre-16th century mathemtatical notation for 1x² + 5x - 6
%
al-Khwarizmi:
    If some one says: "You divide ten into two parts: multiply the one by
    itself; it will be equal to the other taken eighty-one times."
    Computation: You say, ten less a thing, multiplied by itself, is a
    hundred plus a square less twenty things, and this is equal to
    eighty-one things. Separate the twenty things from a hundred and a
    square, and add them to eighty-one. It will then be a hundred plus a
    square, which is equal to a hundred and one roots....

Modern notation:
    (10 - x)² = 81x,   100 + x² - 20x = 81x,   x² + 100 = 101x

    --https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Muhammad_ibn_Musa_al-Khwarizmi#Algebra
