My depression is the most faithful mistress I have known - no wonder,
then, that I return the love.
    --Kierkegaard
%
Judaism, even if you didn't believe in it, plugged you right in to a dynamo
of ideas and beliefs that were, upon examination, not very American.... [T]he
perennially juvenile nation that interpreted divine election as invitation
to grow big and hairy had very little in common with the perpetually aged
faith that understood divine election to be a burden that can never be
shaken off. Jews erred in the wilderness, forever looking for the promised
land; Americans were expanding their city on the hill, the promised land
reincarnate. America was a pledge to optimism; Judaism, to borrow a phrase
from Leonard Cohen, was a manual for living with defeat.
    --Liel Leibovitz, "Death of a Ladies' Man" (Tablet magazine, 2021)
    https://www.tabletmag.com/sections/arts-letters/articles/phil-spector-leonard-cohen-liel-leibovitz
%
[W]e don't assume that every unsolved murder has to have been God smiting
the victim – so unanswered questions aren't a good reason to assume a
divine being as the answer.
    --Dr. Sarah, https://freethoughtblogs.com/geekyhumanist
                       /2022/07/25/questions-questions-for-atheists/
%
We all love ourselves more than other people,
but care more about their opinion than our own.
    --Marcus Aurelius, _Meditations_
%
The main thing is not to kill yourself too early.
    --Shulman
%
Religion is an identity, not an opinion.
%
...because this journey is not subject to the same conditions as others;
for in them some distinctly understood track and inquiries made of the
natives make it impossible for us to go wrong, but here the most beaten
and frequented tracks are those which lead us most astray.
    --Seneca, _Dialogues,_ "On a Happy Life," I
%
It is harmful to follow the march of those who go before us, and since
everyone had rather believe another than form his own opinion, we never
pass a deliberate judgment upon life, but some traditional error always
entangles us and brings us to ruin, and we perish because we follow other
men's examples: we should be cured of this if we were to disengage
ourselves from the herd; but as it is, the mob is ready to fight against
reason in defence of its own mistake.
    --Seneca, _Dialogues,_ "On a Happy Life," I
%
Let us therefore inquire, not what is most commonly done, but what is best
for us to do....
    --Seneca, _Dialogues,_ "On a Happy Life," II
%
How much truth is contained in something can be best determined by making
it thoroughly laughable and then watching to see how much joking around it
can take. For truth is a matter that can withstand mockery, that is
freshened by any ironic gesture directed at it. Whatever cannot withstand
satire is false.
    --Peter Sloterdijk, _Critique of Cynical Reason_
%
Keep this in mind the next time you are about to repeat a rumor or spread
gossip.
  In ancient Greece (469 - 399 BC), Socrates was widely lauded for his
wisdom. One day an acquaintance ran up to him excitedly and said,
"Socrates, do you know what I just heard about Diogenes?"
  "Wait a moment," Socrates replied, "Before you tell me, I'd like you to
pass a little test. It's called the Triple Filter Test."
  "Triple filter?" asked the acquaintance.
  "That's right," Socrates continued, "Before you talk to me about Diogenes
let's take a moment to filter what you're going to say. The first filter is
Truth. Have you made absolutely sure that what you are about to tell me is
true?"
  "No," the man said, "Actually I just heard about it."
  "All right," said Socrates, "So you don't really know if it's true or
not. Now let's try the second filter, the filter of Goodness. Is what you
are about to tell me about Diogenes something good?"
  "No, on the contrary..."
  "So," Socrates continued, "You want to tell me something about Diogenes
that may be bad, even though you're not certain it's true?"
  The man shrugged, a little embarrassed. Socrates continued, "You may
still pass the test though, because there is a third filter, the filter of
Usefulness. Is what you want to tell me about Diogenes going to be useful
to me?"
  "No, not really."
  "Well," concluded Socrates, "If what you want to tell me is neither True
nor Good nor even Useful, why tell it to me or anyone at all?"
  The man was bewildered and ashamed. This is an example of why Socrates
was a great philosopher and held in such high esteem.
  It also explains why Socrates never found out that Diogenes was banging
his wife.
