[T]he best way to understand Theresa May's predicament is to imagine
that 52 percent of Britain had voted that the government should build
a submarine out of cheese.
  --Hugo Rifkind (2018-12-10)
    https://twitter.com/hugorifkind/status/1072222352035987456?s=11
%
Freedom only for the supporters of the government, only for the members of
a party – however numerous they may be – is no freedom at all. Freedom is
always the freedom of the one who thinks differently. Not because of the
fanaticism of "justice", but rather because all that is instructive,
wholesome, and purifying in political freedom depends on this essential
characteristic, and its effects cease to work when "freedom" becomes a
privilege.
    --Rosa Luxemburg, _The Russian Revolution_
%
To be sure, every democratic institution has its faults and limitations,
which it has in common with all human institutions. But the remedy
discovered by Lenin and Trotsky, the abolition of democracy, is worse than
the evil it is supposed to cure, for it shuts off the lifespring from which
can come the cure for all the inadequacies of social institutions.
    --Rosa Luxemburg, _The Russian Revolution_
%
There was nothing that Marx feared so much as the degeneration of his
school into a rigid sect....
To Marx there was no ultimate knowledge, only an infinite process of
learning. Therefore, his own theory is not to be conceive as a collection
of tenets which we must accept on faith. Marxism itself is nothing but a
definite process of learning... This method itself, which Marx and Engels
called the materialist conception of history, is not unalterable. It is
constantly being improved, like a machine, through continued gain in
experience accumulated in its application.
    --Karl Kautsky, _Social Democracy versus Communism_ (ch. 2)
      https://www.marxists.org/archive/kautsky/1930s/demvscom/
%
The law, in its majestic equality, forbids the rich as well as the poor
to sleep under bridges, to beg in the streets, and to steal bread.
    --Anatole France
%
When plunder becomes a way of life for a group of men in a society,
over the course of time they create for themselves a legal system that
authorizes it and a moral code that glorifies it.
    --Frédéric Bastiat
%
The modern conservative is engaged in one of man's oldest exercises in
moral philosophy; that is, the search for a superior moral justification
for selfishness.
    --J.K. Galbreath
%
The modern conservative is not even especially modern. He is engaged,
on the contrary, in one of man's oldest, best financed, most
applauded, and, on the whole, least successful exercises in moral
philosophy. That is the search for a superior moral justification for
selfishness. It is an exercise which always involves a certain number
of internal contradictions and even a few absurdities. The
conspicuously wealthy turn up urging the character-building value of
privation for the poor. The man who has struck it rich in minerals,
oil, or other bounties of nature is found explaining the debilitating
effect of unearned income from the state. The corporate executive who
is a superlative success as an organization man weighs in on the evils
of bureaucracy. Federal aid to education is feared by those who live
in suburbs that could easily forgo this danger, and by people whose
children are in public schools. Socialized medicine is condemned by
men emerging from Walter Reed Hospital. Social Security is viewed with
alarm by those who have the comfortable cushion of an inherited
income. Those who are immediately threatened by public efforts to meet
their needs — whether widows, small farmers, hospitalized veterans, or
the unemployed — are almost always oblivious to the danger.
    --J.K. Galbreath, Congressional Record vol. 109 sentate 1963-12-18
%
From each according to their vulnerability, to each according to their greed.
    --Steve Bell on David Cameron's "Big Society" https://www.theguardian.com
      /commentisfree/cartoon/2011/jan/21/steve-bell-david-cameron
%
Some comrades do not like to think much about difficulties. But
difficulties are facts; we must recognize as many difficulties as
there are and should not adopt a "policy of non-recognition". We must
recognize difficulties, analyse them and combat them. There are no
straight roads in the world; we must be prepared to follow a road that
twists and turns and not try to get things on the cheap.
    --Mao Zedong, "On the Chungking Negotiations," 1945-10-17. (LRB Ch.21)
%
Conservatism consists of exactly one proposition, to wit: there must be
in-groups whom the law protects but does not bind, alongside out-groups
whom the law binds but does not protect.
    --Frank Wilhoit
      https://crookedtimber.org/2018/03/21/liberals-against-progressives/#comment-729288
%
King: "Kings do not kill kings."
Anarchist: "Exactly why we have to."
%
If the main pillar of the system is living a lie, then it is not surprising
that the fundamental threat to it is living in truth.
    --Vaclav Havel
%
A liberal is a man too broadminded to take his own side in a quarrel.
    --Robert Frost
%
The only way you can ever accuse a Conservative of hypocrisy is if they
walk past a homeless person without kicking him in the face.
    --Jeremy Hardy, on Tories
%
The truth is that the elite world that Epstein ascended into, the one I
tapped into by way of the black book, is populated with hordes of
loathsome, boring, untalented people living their bumbling, idiotic lives
while just so happening to wield some share of the preposterous global
bounty that he and the rest were after. For all the mystery surrounding
Epstein's fortune, its existence is hardly more inscrutable than the wealth
of any of his other billionaire peers. He earned it the same way they all
did, which is to say precisely not at all.
    This wasn't some masterful hack into the global aristocracy. It's what
everyone does. It's what the whole thing is. There is no scam here. It's
grifters grifting grifters all the way down.
    --Leland Nally, "I Called Everyone in Jeffrey Epstein's Little Black Book"
      Mother Jones, 2020-10-09
%
In fact, the likeliest reason why so many of us care so little about
politics is that modern politicians make us sad, hurt us deep down in ways
that are hard even to name, much less talk about.
    --David Foster Wallace, "Up Simba"
%
...if you're a true-blue, market-savvy Young Voter, the only thing you're
certain to feel about John McCain's campaign is a very modern and American
type of ambivalence, a sort of iterior war between your deep need to
believe and your deep belief that the need to believe is bullshit, that
there's nothing left anywhere but sales and salesmen.
    --David Foster Wallace, "Up Simba"
%
[Regarding fear of speaking due to "cancel culture":] There have always
been codes of silence. At every time in history, to have access to people's
true thoughts, one needed to learn a community's codes and go deeper than
superficial conversation. But today many people feel disoriented because
the code is changing very fast and few understand where the changes come
from. It used to be that if I didn't offend the chief of the village or the
gods of the village, I could have freedom in other aspects. Now the source
of power is less clear. It is globalized. You can say something about
someone thousands of miles away and have instant repercussions.
  And it is democratized: So many more people, especially young people,
exercise power in controlling these public conversations. With their savvy
and their numbers, they can demand consequences for certain kinds of
speech. But their code is always changing, often very quickly and
unpredictably, so many people feel that until they understand the new
equilibrium, they must be circumspect observers and cannot talk freely.
    --Elnathan John, interview in _The Atlantic_ 2021-08-21
      https://www.theatlantic.com/ideas/archive/2021/08/elnathan-john-satire-and-cancel-culture/619850/
%
William F. Buckley, a conservative fogey once renowned, said that he was
"standing athwart history, shouting 'stop.'" I have been marching beside
history saying "Well done, can I get you anything?"
    --Nathan J. Robinson, _My Affairs_ (2019)
%
"This would be a grand land if only ever Irishman would kill a negro,
and be hanged for it."
    --Edward Augustus Freeman (letter to F.H. Dickenson, "Of America," 1881)
%
Western liberal democracies, have now exceeded many people's capacity to
tolerate them.
    --Karen Stenner and Jonathan Haidt
%
Laissez faire conservatism is generally associated with a tendency to disavow
government intervention in all affairs of the individual, whether economic or
political, social or moral. Status quo conservatism is a tendency to prefer
stability and preservation of the status quo over change.

  You can think of status quo conservatism as an aversion to difference over
time (things being changeable, unsettled, or uncertain), as opposed to
authoritarianism, which is an aversion to difference across space (things being
complex, varied, or disordered). This distinction matters for the preservation
of liberal democracy, because status-quo conservatives will be inclined to
defend and preserve an established regime of diversity and freedom, so long as
it is authoritatively supported, institutionally entrenched, consensually
accepted, and a source of social stability.
    --Karen Stenner
%
It is important to recognize that authoritarian predisposition is another way
of being human and not intrinsically/necessarily evil. It is a natural
variation in human "political character," largely heritable and relatively
immutable, and, most importantly, pretty much immune to—and, in fact, more
likely to be aggravated by—democratic experiences/socialization and the
promotion of multiculturalism.
    --Karen Stenner
%
    The Solution

After the uprising of the 17th June
The Secretary of the Writers Union
Had leaflets distributed in the Stalinallee
Stating that the people
Had forfeited the confidence of the government
And could win it back only
By redoubled efforts. Would it not be easier
In that case for the government
To dissolve the people
And elect another?
    --Bertolt Brecht, 1953
%
Tolerance is not a moral absolute; it is a peace treaty. Tolerance is a
social norm because it allows different people to live side-by-side without
being at each other's throats.... But the model of a peace treaty differs
from the model of a moral precept in one simple way: the protection of a
peace treaty only extends to those willing to abide by its terms. It is an
agreement to live in peace, not an agreement to be peaceful no matter the
conduct of others. A peace treaty is not a suicide pact.
    --"Tolerance is Not a Moral Precept"
      https://extranewsfeed.com/tolerance-is-not-a-moral-precept-1af7007d6376
%
Charles Murray and Richard Herrnstein actually proved a very important
point, but not the one they thought they proved. They inadvertently
confirmed an abundance of intentional injustice, not a lack of innate
intelligence. They actually measured and documented the results stemming
social, economic and political casual factors of disparate IQ test result,
not the genetic or innate level of intelligence related to race. That is,
IQ does not predict social outcomes, social outcomes predict IQ
    --Arianne, review of _The Bell Curve_
      https://www.amazon.com/gp/customer-reviews/R3R47VX14ABVZ9
%
Whatever happens, let no one say that this is a struggle for the Tory
party's soul. There is no such thing. The Tory party is a vast organism
animated by a few vague common principles such as tradition and love of
country, and above all by the pursuit and retention of power.
    --Boris Johnson
%
Nationalism is just politics for basic bitches.
    --_Inside Job,_ part 1, episode 1 ("Unpresidented")
%
Unions are like condoms. If someone is trying to hard to convince you
that you don't need one, you definitely need one.
%
Religion might make us love God but there is nothing stronger than religion
to make us despise man and hate humankind.
    --Boualem Sansal, _2084: The End of the World_
%
The attitude of the Indian millionaires was similar. Gandhi called upon them
to repent, and naturally they preferred him to the Socialists and Communists
who, given the chance, would actually have taken their money away.
    --George Orwell, "Reflections on Gandhi"
%
The essence of being human is that one does not seek perfection, that one
is sometimes willing to commit sins for the sake of loyalty... and that one
is prepared in the end to be defeated and broken up by life, which is the
inevitable price of fastening one's love upon other human individuals. No
doubt alcohol, tobacco and so forth are things that a saint must avoid, but
sainthood is also a thing that human beings must avoid.
    --George Orwell, "Reflections on Gandhi"
%
In this yogi-ridden age, it is too readily assumed that 'non-attachment' is
not only better than a full acceptance of earthly life, but that the ordinary
man only rejects it because it is too difficult: in other words, that the
average human being is a failed saint. It is doubtful whether this is true.
Many people genuinely do not wish to be saints, and it is probable that some
who achieve or aspire to sainthood have never felt much temptation to be
human beings. If one could follow it to its psychological roots, one would, I
believe, find that the main motive for 'non-attachment' is a desire to escape
from the pain of living, and above all from love, which, sexual or
non-sexual, is hard work.
    --George Orwell, "Reflections on Gandhi"
%
In relation to the late war, one question that every pacifist had a clear
obligation to answer was: 'What about the Jews? Are you prepared to see them
exterminated? If not, how do you propose to save them without resorting to
war?' ...Gandhi was asked a somewhat similar question in 1938 and that his
answer is on record in Mr Louis Fischer's Gandhi and Stalin. According to Mr
Fischer Gandhi's view was that the German Jews ought to commit collective
suicide, which 'would have aroused the world and the people of Germany to
Hitler's violence'. After the war he justified himself: the Jews had been
killed anyway, and might as well have died significantly.... If you are not
prepared to take life, you must often be prepared for lives to be lost in
some other way.
    --George Orwell, "Reflections on Gandhi"
%
It is difficult to see how Gandhi's methods could be applied in a country
where opponents of the regime disappear in the middle of the night and are
never heard of again. Without a free press and the right of assembly, it is
impossible not merely to appeal to outside opinion, but to bring a mass
movement into being, or even to make your intentions known to your adversary.
Is there a Gandhi in Russia at this moment? And if there is, what is he
accomplishing? The Russian masses could only practise civil disobedience if
the same idea happened to occur to all of them simultaneously, and even then,
to judge by the history of the Ukraine famine, it would make no difference.
    --George Orwell, "Reflections on Gandhi"
%
A metaphorical war cannot be won by the same methods as a real one.
    --Jack F. Matlock Jr., _Superpower Illusions_
%
We were kept down by the original geniuses of brainwashing, which was the
British aristocracy, who taught us it was noble to be poor--and they taught
with the help of religion--it was noble to be poor and and the meek shall
inherit the earth.
  You know, the piece of earth the meek inherit is six feet by four.
    --Michael Caine (interview, https://youtu.be/C54ALyclq1M)
%
America needs a third party to find a middle way between the polarized
extremes of, on the one hand, overthrowing elections by violence and, on
the other hand, not overthrowing elections by violence.
    --David Frum (https://twitter.com/davidfrum/status/1553808175874408448)
%
Labor is the superior of captial, and deserves much the higher consideration.
    --Abraham Lincoln (to Congress in 1861)
%
Justice cannot be practiced where human dignity is ignored.
    --José María Arizmendiarrieta (_Reflections_ 003)
%
Knowledge must be socialized so that power can be democratized.
    --José María Arizmendiarrieta (_Reflections_ 185)
%
Pacifism is objectively pro-Fascist. This is elementary common sense. If
you hamper the war effort of one side you automatically help that of the
other. Nor is there any real way of remaining outside such a war as the
present one. In practice, 'he that is not with me is against me.' The idea
that you can somehow remain aloof from and superior to the struggle, while
living on food which British sailors have to risk their lives to bring you,
is a bourgeois illusion bred of money and security.
    --George Orwell, "Pacifism and the War" (1942)
%
You in Britain are Moscow in about 1988. Everyone knows the system isn't
working. Everyone knows that the managers are completely looting it. They
know that you know that they know, but no one has any concept of a possible
alternative. The only difference is you've already tried democracy. You've
got nothing else left.
    --Russian Journalist to Adam Curtis
%
If someone says it's raining and another person says it's dry, it's not
your job to quote them both. Your job is to look out of the fucking window
and find out which is true
    --Attributed to Sheffield University journalism prof. Jonathan Foster
%
The public sector is incompetent, but the
private sector is incompetent and greedy.
    --Jeremy Hardy
%
We regard political conservatism as an ideological belief system that is
significantly (but not completely) related to motivational concerns having
to do with the psychological management of uncertainty and fear. Specifically,
the avoidance of uncertainty (and the striving for certainty) may be
particularly tied to one core dimension of conservative thought, resistance
to change.... Similarly, concerns with fear and threat may be linked to the
second core dimension of conservatism, endorsement of inequality....
Although resistance to change and support for inequality are conceptually
distinguishable, we have argued that they are psychologically interrelated,
in part because motives pertaining to uncertainty and threat are interrelated.
    --Jost et al.; The Secret Lives of Liberals and Conservatives
%
Never underestimate the tendency of the middle class's need to be a herd of
independent minds.
    Matt Hanson, "My dispiriting, infuriating – and illuminating – time as
    a political telemarketer," _The Guardian_ 2019-04-02
%
In 1845, the corn laws were the most polarising, divisive issue in British
politics, like a Brexit made out of lockdown parties.
    --Geographics, "The Irish Potato Famine," https://youtu.be/kKh71EHGXwI
%
How is it that we hear the loudest yelps for liberty among the drivers of
negroes?
    --Samuel Johnson
%
So, these aliens decide to invade Earth, and to show they mean business
what they do is first they destroy London and New York, and then they land,
right on the green line between Israel and the West Bank. And they decide
to call a meeting between the Palestinian Authority and the Israeli
government. And their message is simple: resistance is useless; lay down
your arms.
  I can't really tell you the detail of what happened next, but basically
by the end of it your sympathy was with the aliens.
    --Nessa Stein, _The Honourable Woman,_ S1E1
%
The first man who, having enclosed a piece of ground, bethought himself of
saying "This is mine," and found people simple enough to believe him, was
the real founder of civil society. From how many crimes, wars, and murders,
from how many horrors and misfortunes might not any one have saved mankind,
by pulling up the stakes, or filling up the ditch, and crying to his
fellows: Beware of listening to this impostor; you are undone if you once
forget that the fruits of the earth belong to us all, and the earth itself
to nobody.
    --Jean-Jacques Rousseau, _Discourse on Inequality_ (1754)
%
In his influential 1957 essay "Conservatism as an Ideology," the political
scientist Samuel P. Huntington defined conservatism as "that system of
ideas employed to justify any established social order, no matter where or
when it exists, against any fundamental challenge to its nature or being,
no matter from what quarter." Conservative ideology is thus best understood
as situational, not ideational. Rather than offer a substantive vision for
the remaking of a given social order, the task of conservatism is to defend
established institutions and beliefs against those with the power and
determination to remake them.
    --Reihan Salam, "Searchining for a Conservatism of Normalcy," 2023-04-25
%
Today I'm holding a campaign meeting in a suburban school. I'm
explaining to a group of floating voters that UKIP believes in freedom.
  'You mean the freedom for me to marry my boyfriend?' says a man.
  'Different sort of freedom,' I say.
  'What about the freedom for my community to build a new mosque?'
says another.
  'Again,' I say. 'Slightly complicated.'
  'Personally,' says one young woman, 'I'd like the freedom to live
and work in France.
  I slump a bit.
  'Look,' I say to one of the pupils. 'I don't suppose you're allowed
to smoke in here?'
  'No, Mr Farage,' he says.
  'Well, that's precisely what I'm talking about,' I say. 'Vote UKIP
and all that could change.
    --"My Week," Nigel Farage, 4 May 2013* (*According to Hugo Rifkind)
%
Robert Conquest's second law of politics: Any organization not explicitly
and constitutionally right-wing will sooner or later become left wing.
%
Experiments have shown that whereas leftists can be downright suspicious of
people who might have nefarious reasons for agreeing with them,
conservatives tend to open up the door and their wallets to them. (So if
you were a crook with political ambitions, where would you make your pitch?)
    --Bob Altemeyer
