Anti-Catholicism has always been the pornography of the Puritan. Whereas
the anti-Masons had envisaged drinking bouts and had entertained themselves
with sado-masochistic fantasies about the actual enforcement of grisly
Masonic oaths, the anti-Catholics invented an immense lore about libertine
priests, the confessional as an opportunity for seduction, licentious
convents and monasteries.
    --Richard Hofstadter, "The Paranoid Style in American Politics" (1964)
%
The tide turned decisively in the 13th century with the theological genius
Thomas Aquinas denouncing homosexual acts as "against nature." All sex -
heterosexual and homosexual - was to be reserved only for married couples
open to procreation, and any other sexual activity was a grave sin.
Homosexuals, in the new theology, were part of nature — many had noticed
homosexual behavior in the animal kingdom, particularly among hares and
hyenas - but they were also somehow contrary to nature. Aquinas never
resolved this paradox. Neither has the [Catholic] church.
    --Andrew Sullivan, "The Gay Church." _New York_ magazine, 2019-01-21
      https://nymag.com/intelligencer/2019/01/gay-priests-catholic-church.html
%
Scientists do not join hands every Saturday or Sunday and sing, "Yes,
gravity is real! I know gravity is real! I will have faith! I will be
strong! I believe in my heart that what goes up, up, up must come down,
down, down. Amen!" If they did, we would think they were pretty insecure
about the concept.
    --Dan Barker, _Godless_ (p.101)
%
I like your Christ, I do not like your Christians.
Your Christians are so unlike your Christ.
    --(not Mahatma Ghandi)
%
Lincoln: What's God?
McCord:  Well, you know, when you want something really bad and you close
         your eyes and you wish for it? God's the guy that ignores you.
    --The Island
%
The God of the Old Testament is arguably the most unpleasant character
in all fiction: jealous and proud of it; a petty, unjust, unforgiving
control-freak; a vindictive, bloodthirsty ethnic cleanser; a misogynistic,
homophobic, racist, infanticidal, genocidal, filicidal, pestilential,
megalomaniacal, sadomasochistic, capriciously malevolent bully.
    --Richard Dawkins
%
Wally: God hates me.
Kevin: No he doesn't; he loves you. He just doesn't know how to express it.
    --_Spivak_ (2017 film)
